feat(docs): adding an RSS Feed (#11941)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/adding-an-rss-feed.md

    const value = createFilePath({ node, getNode })
    createNodeField({
      name: `slug`,
      node,
      value,
    })
  }
}
```

Next run a build (`npm run build`) since the RSS feed generation will only happen for production builds. By default, the generated RSS feed path is `/rss.xml`, but the plugin exposes options to configure this default functionality.

For basic setups with Markdown content like the [gatsby-starter-blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog), that's all you need! However, you can craft a custom RSS feed schema using custom code in your `gatsby-node.js` and `gatsby-config.js` files.

## Customizing the RSS feed plugin

Your content might not fit neatly into the blog-starter scenario, for various reasons like:

- Your content isn't in Markdown so the plugin doesn't know about it
- Your Markdown files have dates in the filenames, for which the slug URLs cause 404s

The good news is you can accommodate these scenarios and more in `gatsby-config.js` and `gatsby-node.js`.

To customize the default feed schema (a.k.a. structure) output by the plugin to work with your website's content, you can start with the following code:

> ```json:title=gatsby.config.js

Reviewer: This is js!

Would generally recommend doing something like:

````md
```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
 plugins: [
   // your code block
 ]
}
```
````

just so we can show it as real-world as possible!

Author: Done!

                      html
                      fields { slug }
                      frontmatter {
                        title
                        date
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            `,
            output: "/rss.xml",
            title: "Your Site's RSS Feed",
          },
        ],
      },
    },
```

This snippet contains a custom `gatsby-plugin-feed` setup in `gatsby-config.js` to query metadata for your site, like its `title` and `siteUrl`. It also includes a `feeds` array with at least one object containing a GraphQL query and `serialize` method, which allows you to output a custom RSS feed structure. In this example, the RSS content comes from Markdown files sourced from your site, and queried with the key `allMarkdownRemark` and its associated filters and fields.

The `output` field in your feed object allows you to customize the filename for your RSS feed, and `title` for the name of your site's RSS feed.

To see your feed in action, run `gatsby build && gatsby serve` and you can then inspect the content and URLs in your RSS file at `http://localhost:9000/rss.xml`.

> > NOTE: if your blog has custom permalinks, such as links with or without dates in them, you may need to [customize `gatsby-node.js`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog/blob/master/gatsby-node.js#L57) to output the correct URLs in your RSS feed. [Get in touch with us](/contributing/how-to-contribute/) if you need any help!

Reviewer: Like this pattern a lot!

Author: Seriously, when I was learning to build websites I would have loved this. I felt bad always pestering my one friend who knew how everything worked...having a whole community available would have been amazing.

For basic setups with Markdown content like the [gatsby-starter-blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog), that's all you need! However, you can craft a custom RSS feed schema using custom code in your `gatsby-node.js` and `gatsby-config.js` files.

## Customizing the RSS feed plugin

Your content might not fit neatly into the blog-starter scenario, for various reasons like:

- Your content isn't in Markdown so the plugin doesn't know about it
- Your Markdown files have dates in the filenames, for which the slug URLs cause 404s

The good news is you can accommodate these scenarios and more in `gatsby-config.js` and `gatsby-node.js`.

To customize the default feed schema (a.k.a. structure) output by the plugin to work with your website's content, you can start with the following code:

```js:title=gatsby.config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-feed`,
      options: {
        query: `
          {
            site {
              siteMetadata {
                title
                description
                siteUrl

>                 site_url: siteUrl

Reviewer 2: any explanation why this additional `site_url` is needed?

---
title: Adding an RSS Feed
---

## What is an RSS feed?

An [RSS Feed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSS) is a standard XML file listing a website’s content in a subscribable format, allowing readers to consume your content in news aggregators, also called feed reader apps.

Think of it as a syndicated distribution channel for your site's content.

## Install

To generate an RSS feed, you can use the [`gatsby-plugin-feed`](/packages/gatsby-plugin-feed/) package. To install this package, run the following command:

```sh
npm install --save gatsby-plugin-feed
```

## How to use [gatsby-plugin-feed](/packages/gatsby-plugin-feed/)

Once installation is complete, you can now add this plugin to your site's config file, like so:

> ```json:title=gatsby-config.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js:title=gatsby-config.js
```

You'll want to tweak the code snippet too!

(module.exports = {
  "siteMetadata": {
    "siteUrl": `https://www.example.com`
  },
  "plugins": [`gatsby-plugin-feed`]
})
```

> To complete the feed setup, you need to expose a GraphQL entry for our content called `fields.slug` by modifying `gatsby-node.js`. Start with the following code, noting the reference to `MarkdownRemark` content. For content sources other than Markdown, you will want to modify it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete the feed setup, you need to expose a GraphQL entry for our content called `fields.slug` by modifying `gatsby-node.js`. Start with the following code, noting the reference to `MarkdownRemark` content. For content types other than Markdown, you will want to tweak the condition:
```

Also maybe an example? e.g. content types other than Markdown like Contentful, Wordpress, etc.

                      html
                      fields { slug }
                      frontmatter {
                        title
                        date
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            `,
            output: "/rss.xml",
            title: "Your Site's RSS Feed",
          },
        ],
      },
    },
```

This snippet contains a custom `gatsby-plugin-feed` setup in `gatsby-config.js` to query metadata for your site, like its `title` and `siteUrl`. It also includes a `feeds` array with at least one object containing a GraphQL query and `serialize` method, which allows you to output a custom RSS feed structure. In this example, the RSS content comes from Markdown files sourced from your site, and queried with the key `allMarkdownRemark` and its associated filters and fields.

The `output` field in your feed object allows you to customize the filename for your RSS feed, and `title` for the name of your site's RSS feed.

> To see your feed in action, run `gatsby build && gatsby serve` and you can then inspect the content and URLs in your RSS file at `http://localhost:9000/rss.xml`.

> ## Additional customization for content slugs

Reviewer: This seems a little bit tangential? (and the regex is a little gnarly 😈)

Author: I don't think my setup is that unusual, and it seems like something worth mentioning so people don't have to figure it out on their own? I'm open to regex wizardry suggestions 😄

Reviewer: Generally - I think if we document how to create a slug (which we have!), then the rest will sort of follow.

So if someone knew they wanted to remove dates from their slugs--since they already know _how_ to create a slug, that part would be pretty understandable?

Not sure--I can see how there's value in documenting extra cases, but I also don't know how common this is. Guessing you're doing this for your site?
